[2026-04] Storefront & Customer Account API version update 2026-04 (#3651)
Shopify/hydrogen: .changeset/sfapi-caapi-2026-04-update.md

---
'@shopify/hydrogen': major
'@shopify/hydrogen-react': major
'@shopify/cli-hydrogen': patch
'@shopify/create-hydrogen': patch
'skeleton': major
---

Update Storefront API and Customer Account API from 2026-01 to 2026-04.

## Breaking changes

> **JSON metafield values limited to 128KB**: When using API version 2026-04 or later, JSON type metafield writes are limited to 128KB. This affects cart metafield mutations (`cartMetafieldsSet`). Apps that used JSON metafields before April 1, 2026 are grandfathered at the existing 2MB limit. Large metafield values continue to be readable by all API versions.

Reviewer: non-blocking: the 128KB metafield paragraph reads as if Hydrogen is enforcing the limit - "This affects cart metafield mutations (`cartMetafieldsSet`)" - but Hydrogen is a passthrough here. The limit is enforced by the Storefront API, not by Hydrogen's own code. Worth clarifying so merchants don't file bug reports against Hydrogen for something outside its control.

Something like:

```suggestion
**JSON metafield values limited to 128KB**: When using API version 2026-04 or later, the Storefront API limits JSON type metafield writes to 128KB. This limit applies at the API level - Hydrogen passes through to the Storefront API without additional restriction. Apps that used JSON metafields before April 1, 2026 are grandfathered at the existing 2MB limit. Large metafield values continue to be readable by all API versions.
```

## New features

> **New `MERCHANDISE_LINE_TRANSFORMERS_RUN_ERROR` cart error code**: The Storefront API now returns a specific `MERCHANDISE_LINE_TRANSFORMERS_RUN_ERROR` error code when a Cart Transform Function encounters a runtime error during cart operations such as `cartCreate` or `cartLinesAdd`. Previously, these failures returned a generic `INVALID` error code.

Reviewer: non-blocking: "Cart Transform Function" is internal Shopify vocabulary - a merchant building a storefront might not know whether they're using one. The changeset feeds into upgrade docs, so let's make this self-contained:

```suggestion
**New `MERCHANDISE_LINE_TRANSFORMERS_RUN_ERROR` cart error code**: Cart operations (`cartCreate`, `cartLinesAdd`, etc.) now return a specific `MERCHANDISE_LINE_TRANSFORMERS_RUN_ERROR` error code when a Cart Transform Function fails at runtime, instead of the previous generic `INVALID` error code. If you handle cart errors in your storefront code, you may want to add handling for this new code.
```
